Why is data visualization important to humanities research? Although digital humanities have traditionally been framed as a text-based field of study, both Moretti and Drucker argues that visual forms like graphs and maps can and should be used to represent cultural phenomena. As both digital visualization tools as well as visual analysis are increasingly used for research in various humanities studies the next generations of digital humanities scholars would be offered a model of digital humanities scholarship, where they are asked to think critically across different multimodal media to interpret “real-world” findings. Creating scholarship that asks readers to interpret across multiple modes will distinguish digital humanities scholarship from scholarship in the sciences as digital humanities scholarship present itself through a humanistic lens while scholarship in the sciences only presents itself as just "hard facts".  
 
Multimodal data visualization is a key part of data analysis, it communicates relationships of the information with visuals, visualizing data makes it easier to identify patterns, trends, and connections than looking through thousands of rows on a spreadsheet, this can be vital as the ultimate goal of data analysis is to gain insight, data is much more beneficial when visualized even if we can pull insights from data without visualization because it will still be confusing to communicate the findings without visualizations, multimodal data visualization make communicating research findings much more efficient even if you can identify the trends and patterns without them.  
 
With the help of visualization tool Voyant, we can visualize the trends and patterns in Moretti's "GRAPHS, MAPS, TREES" and Drucker's "Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display" 
<!--   Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org). 
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both 
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol) 
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise it depends on this server. 
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: --> 
<iframe style='width: 477px; height: 399px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=novel&query=time&query=novels&query=data&query=graphical&mode=&corpus=729425053dbd901ed44e96c4ab85dd07'></iframe> 
 
 
Data visualization has grown with the rise of the digital age, we need to be capable of interpreting more and more data. Machine learning makes it easier to conduct analyses that contain a large amount of data, which can then serve as helpful visualizations for humanistic studies, but not all data can be turned into visual or used as digital humanities scholarship only those data that have been reviewed and reconstructed by humanities scholars can be applied to humanities studies.  
 
"We re-examine the intellectual foundations of digital humanities, putting techniques of graphical display on a foundation that is humanistic at its base. This requires first and foremost that we reconceive all data as capta"(Drucker 3).  
 
According to Drucker, we must reconceive all data as capta, but how exactly are we supposed to do so?  
The main difference between normal data and capta is that data are given and capta is taken, all data are simply presented to us without having us as scholars to review or take account to whether the data applies to our studies or not but capta is different because it has been through the process of reconstruction by a humanities scholar. To turn general data into capta that can be used for humanities studies, we must break down our data then view and reconstruct those data through a humanistic mindset. For example, if we were to examine a book and turn that data set into usable capta for humanistic studies we won't just review the text of the book but rather the whole experience between the relation of the reader and their experience of the book, humanistic clues like the current condition and ascetic could be helpful while conducting this process of reconstructing data into capta. All capta must be constructed specifically with "ambiguity and complexity" to display converted data as unique visuals for future humanities studies.  
 
"Reading and writing that now encompass digital media are referred to as multimodal media. Digital technologies afford opportunities for the design of modes of expression that can include print or digital text, images, gestures, sound, and movement. These modes can be used individually or in various combinations to communicate. When used in the context of pedagogy the phrase multimodal refers to an interconnection between different modes or representations of media to convey meaning beyond “alphabetical communication.” New modes of communication require not only the ability to craft and manipulate media in new ways; they also require that interpreters, also known as readers, develop the ability to understand these modes of meaning-making as contemporary literacy pedagogy" (Leach). 
 
As the digital age progresses, most of the data we humanities scholars would encounter during our studies are no longer just text-based data, Critical thinking and critical literacy extend beyond the reading and writing of the text. Visualization can create academic arguments, they are evolving to multimodal media alongside the digital world. Digital humanities scholarship should increasingly create multimodal scholarship where readers interpret both the text and any other media because multimodal media require interpreters or readers to interpret and understand the different modes of meaning when we come across these new forms of data.  
 
Effective data visualization is a crucial step in data analysis. Without it, important insights and messages can be lost. Though data visualization we can determine whether the visual is applicable for humanities studies or studies of science by analyzing and review the visual to see if those data had been broken down and reconstructed through a humanistic mindset as capta. 

Heres my [Work Cited](WorkCited.md) page
Go back to [home](ReadMe.md)
